---
---

# On archiving, by an ex-deleter

**October 22, 2024**

I've been posting to the internet since 2005. For a lot of reasons, Quizilla was the first site I ever really used like this&mdash;where I was excited to share my thoughts, my creative works, and posted regularly, both for the attention, and because I enjoyed it. I was younger than the age that's currently deemed to be "legal" to browse the internet.

Quizilla got bought out in 2006 by Yahoo&mdash;which had been a joke among my Quizilla friends and I at the time (we moved to <a href="http://www.mibba.com/">Mibba</a>)&mdash;and nuked from this earth in 2014. Even the Wikipedia page for it, for some reason, <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk%3AQuizilla">no longer exists</a>, which I discovered while trying to look for a timeline of Quizilla's history. Though I grew up in a lot of internet safety classes and teachers telling me over and over again that "nothing really ever gets deleted from the internet", my experience with Quizilla was telling me a different story.

But I was 12 and hadn't really learned my lesson yet. As I grew up, I proceeded to use a variety of websites for my teenage grievances&mdash;from Blogspot to LiveJournal, not to mention Twitter and Tumblr as they came upon the horizon. I loved posting, but I also quickly discovered that I knew I didn't have the kindest thoughts that I expressed on the internet; and also that as time went on, I became progressively more unhappy with what I was posting, the types of things I was posting, and how I was writing my thoughts and feelings, even though they were my emotional truth. I've mentioned before that expressing my thoughts in a long-form format is something I've struggled with for a long time&mdash;this shame at the length of my thoughts, this self-consciousness with the struggle between my logic and my feelings, and any sort of failing at articulating things less than perfectly. It started to become easy to reread what I'd written&mdash;a story, a journal entry, whatever it was&mdash;and feel shame. And the urge to delete.

I'll take a sidebar here to talk a bit about what I was going through, because though it can be as easy as saying that I was a teenager, I know my experiences and that it was a little more complex than that. I was already feeling guilt and shame for who I was in my day to day life&mdash;from my ex-best friend going out of her way to hurt me so she could feel like she had successfully ditched me like we'd arranged (perhaps this is a story for later), from still living with the haunted knowledge that my old crush told her that he thought that I was "gross", from my parents' recent divorce that I had psychologically blamed on myself even if I knew it wasn't true, compounded with my mother's depression resulting in our tumultuous relationship for years, to being a Christian and taking it so seriously for <i>years</i>&mdash;yeah, there's a lot packed in there, all of which leading to the conclusion that I <i>should</i> be ashamed of myself, who I am, and how I express myself. I wouldn't say that I did everything perfectly, of course, but I was a kid. Though I did have people in my life who tried to encourage me to be myself, there were a lot more avenues that felt like they were trying to shut me down.

And so, with my complicated neurological patterns and experiences already, on top of being a teenager, I wanted to delete the moment I felt an ounce of shame, so I did. I deleted my old Blogspots. I deleted my old LiveJournal entries. I deleted my old stories as soon as I felt like enough time had passed where I could look back on them and pick out the "worst" ones. I deleted a lot.

Quizilla was foundational to me in a lot of ways. And yet, one of those ways included my initial view of existing on the internet&mdash;you could delete whatever you wanted, whenever you wanted. You could disappear. And through a lot of my internalized self-hatred, I thrived with this knowledge. Did you know that I used to have more Super Junior works on my AO3 (100+) than Haikyuu? Did you know that I paid attention&mdash;still do, actually&mdash;to LiveJournal/Dreamwidth URLs and feel <i>anxiety</i> when I see a slightly longer number, because I know it indicates a large amount of posts existing before it? Did you know at one point I used to have 120+ stories on my FictionPress, and now I have 60? (It's still up.) Did you know I used to hate dating works and entries and whatever else I posted, because I preferred seeing those things existing outside of time even though time is the one real consistent truth? Did you know that I used to mass-delete my fic that I was "ashamed" of regularly&mdash;that if I never did, I'd have 600+ works on my AO3 profile, since I joined AO3 in the first place in 2011?

It took until committing to the name <i>aroceu</i> for me to stop this bad habit. Yet I won't say that I don't have the thoughts anymore&mdash;as recently as 2022, I considered starting over again. Not deleting though, because at that point I knew I had enough on the internet, under that alias, to not feel ashamed of it. But it was a part of my ecosystem. Having the ability to shed a name, a skin, and start over again.

While I understand what I was doing, and why, I don't think it was good. I don't mean this moralistically or even reflectively on myself, really. I mean this in the sense of the internet. When we share a space with any living human being&mdash;especially in a space that is bursting with creativity&mdash;we have the right to be our authentic selves, no matter how flawed we are. We are never under any obligation to delete anything, much less feel ashamed of our authenticity. Though of course this does not absolve us of whatever complicated and self-aware feelings we may have, when I look at things from a wider scope, I regularly practice no longer trying to see things through my biased judgment. Instead, I try to see things the way they are&mdash;someone experiencing an emotional truth and talking about it, no matter how illogical or messy that may be.

I deleted a lot because of my shame, and because I knew I could. My teachers were wrong; nothing is permanent on the internet, and I knew that firsthand. It didn't occur to me until this year, with clarity, that the internet is bursting with the variety of human experiences that have no reason to feel any shame about, because in one way or another, we relate to each other. Not only that, but the internet is an archive of a time gone by&mdash;whether it's my time, or the time in the world. I remember when websites were cramped and every link was blue and there were only five fonts that could exist on a webpage. I remember when I enjoyed displaying an archive of my past website designs, because you could see my improvement over the years. I remember when I was a teenager in 2011, fascinated by and clicking through all the fannish websites that I've more or less coalesced <a href="https://kingdra.net/links/oldfansites.php">here</a>. I remember that even as I deleted, I continued to post.

A handful of quotes from <i>the Social Network</i> forever live in my brain. One of them is "private behavior is a relic of a time gone by." Another is "the internet isn't written in pencil, it's written in ink." Both of these statements speak a lot to not only internet culture in 2005, but also a mindset that we quickly adapted once Facebook entered our lives. This is a net evil; and it's not to say that we shouldn't value our privacy, because we certainly should. But it's more to say that this idea of internet homeostasis is not founded in this permanent, public existence. Rather, that though we certainly <i>should</i> think about what we're posting to the internet and why, it does not eradicate the authentic expressions of the human experience that we die to share with each other, or maybe just ourselves. Though perhaps my 14-year old ramblings about how much I hated my friends would not be valuable to anyone else at any given time, it bears saying that sharing myself in that way at that time was still important to me.

Unfortunately, I got repeatedly triggered by my own perceptions of myself on social media which gave me a lot of anxiety for several years that followed. But I digress.

The internet is indeed a place of capital; but it's also a place of human beings. Though many&mdash;most, if I can be honest&mdash;people see the internet as this crawling, AI-generative, clean soulless designs that try to get you to keep visiting it to put money into some rich people's pockets, where social media is seen as the internet in default form and the expansiveness of unique websites as an afterthought...it's not. It's not <i>just</i> that, at least. The corporative aspect <a href="social-media">I've already talked at length about</a>; but the reason I'm writing this in the first place is because I think the internet can be so much more than that. I <i>know</i> it <i>is</i>. It is already; people just need to stop visiting the same 3 websites every day and become curious and explore.

I've stopped deleting for now; in fact, I recently reposted a bunch of old graphics/icons that I made that, though people may not use them, I wanted to share for archival and presentation purposes. Though I've deleted old fics off and on because I'm both self-conscious and possessive of my work, I've gone through them enough to say with somewhat confidence that I hope I won't delete them again&mdash;whether or not my fic is on my fic website is still different than if they're on my AO3, an archive that is, in part, my own. I've maintained a private Dreamwidth of all of my completed fictional works since 2010 anyway; despite all my deletion, they still exist in this virtual space, however privately. And I keep copies of everything on my computer's disk. (I don't understand people who don't!)

The internet is a vast, complicated, and only selectively organized space. Much like the rest of the world. The corporations feel dominant and omnipresent&mdash;much like the rest of the world as well. Despite this, though, we do still have our privacy, our agency, our creativity and uniqueness as human beings, whether that's in expression or our day to day emotional experiences. While it's certainly not necessary to share everything&mdash;or anything, if you choose to&mdash;the whole reason we're here in the first place <i>is</i> to share in some capacity. Our emotions get easier when we connect with others; our thoughts get easier when we exchange different perspectives with others. I believe fundamentally that the purpose of anything is our relationships with each other as human beings. What's the point of joy if I can't share it? How would I have come to any emotional clarity without the thoughts or imaginations of the many creative people who've impacted me? Why are we here if not to see each other with open eyes? And even when we do have those more private, ugly parts of ourselves&mdash;though we certainly don't have to share it on the internet, how else can we learn to improve, if not with each other?

I suppose along with my anxiety comes with my neuroses of losing things; though I loved deleting my own works in the past, I hated when others did it. I was aware of my own hypocrisy, of course, but it didn't sideline the devastation I felt when I would revisit an old link and discover that it was gone. I justified my own deletions by thinking that what I wrote&mdash;aspects of myself, essentially&mdash;wasn't worth preserving because I didn't think anyone could possibly resonate with them, but it was different when others did it with things that resonated with me. It was selfish and contradictory, but I still felt that truth. If it was meaningful to me&mdash;even it was only me&mdash;I thought it deserved to stay on the internet forever.

And, you know. I was right.

I'm not going to go and put all my old stuff back on the internet. Especially as I discovered the Wayback Machine in 2011&mdash;I don't really find it necessary to look, but I'm sure that a handful of the stuff I've deleted over the years probably still exists there, and I have no issue with it. I don't see myself or my works as so uniquely and specially important to not be archived, especially as I've posted, I've had audiences. And this isn't necessarily for "an audience," but more with the reality that if I wrote something that meant something to me, then it probably meant something to someone else in some way, and I see no reason to rid them of the ability to re-experience that. Those things were important to me once, too. Why preserve myself as someone who will only share the exceptional with the exceptional, when in reality we are all stumbling around in our own journeys, at our own paces?

Of course, part of this comes with my own passion for creative and self-expression on the internet, which I know not all people may share with me, and that's fine. But there are people who do: I recently read <a href="https://neonaut.neocities.org/cyber/crypt/">"Cyber Mausoleums: The Argument Against Deleting"</a>, which, while short, hits you over the head with the mortality of it all. We delete out of shame for who we were in the moment&mdash;but what about what it means when our lives come to an end? With the internet so currently present, is it not valuable enough to see it as an archive not only of the time that has passed, but the lives as well? The preservation of a soul that may not exist like this otherwise? I remember the first time I came across the personal website of someone who had passed&mdash;<a href="https://trickster.org/fannishbutterfly/">Sandy Herrold</a>, a passionate fanfiction writer from the 90s. I was so fascinated by her site that it took me several hours of reading her old entries to finally come across the fact that she had passed years ago. And it made me sad&mdash;but from then on it made my experience with her website and her writings and her thoughts much more meaningful to me, because it felt more like experiencing a memory that I was granted access to.

Though not everyone may be comfortable sharing themselves in this way, especially from the perspective of the end of one's life, my own relationship with death and grief and what it means to have a memory makes the internet that much more valuable to me. I have messages from those who've passed, links to profiles of people who haven't talked to me in over a decade. I remember old forum URLs with my high school friends, even my old cringey deviantART usernames that I'm pretty sure I deleted in the early 2010s. One of my old friends from college was deep into Sherlock fandom; she deleted her Tumblr before she passed away from leukemia in 2016. I have Liam Payne's old Tumblr URL. One night in 2014 I spent 3 hours being extremely gay looking at pictures of Sulli online, not thinking that 5 years later she would kill herself due to getting cyberbullied.

The internet is as much a part of death as it is a part of our lives now. We share these parts of ourselves because we want to, because we have to&mdash;and in addition to that, it is an archive of our lives, our experiences, our memories, and our souls. The internet is not written in pencil, or even in ink, but in emotional truths&mdash;and if anything we express is resonant, even if only with ourselves, it is as valuable as any- and everything else in this world. It's a microcosm of our lives and rich inner world in sometimes the most unique, messy, and expressive ways. It's an archive of who we were in the past, who we were now. And as a self-proclaimed humanist, I find it all important, because I find all human lives to be important.

I wrestled for a while this idea of having an archive of people who've passed and meant a lot to me&mdash;since my old college friend passed from leukemia, actually. When I discovered that she had deleted her blog prior to her death, it saddened me because no matter how many of her Sherlock reblogs I would scroll past (and no matter how complicated our online relationship was at the time), I knew that her Tumblr was still a part of her, represented her, and now it's virtually lost to time. Believe me, I checked the Wayback Machine under her many old URLs. The only way I could really preserve her memory on the internet in the way I wanted to was to create an internet memorial for her, but even then I felt weird about it because I didn't want to feel like I was talking about her death&mdash;her life&mdash;for some sort of spectacle, just for me.

But it's been several years since 2016, and I don't think that way anymore. Because I think any memory of her that I have, any way that I wanted to share my love for the tall quiet girl I met when I was 18 and complimented my roommate's Gorillaz t-shirt and had as many flaws as things I loved about her, is valuable&mdash;both for herself, and for me. My memory of her is what keeps her spirit alive, even if it's just a couple of bytes on the internet. Because after we die, all that's left of us&mdash;truly us, the way we were&mdash;lies in the memories of those who knew us.

Maybe I'm thinking a lot about loss and death because of last week, because Liam Payne's death means a lot more to me than a man violently and tragically and horrifically dying. My love for him in my life has always been transitive&mdash;every single friend who liked One Direction almost as much as I did was a Liam girl (gender neutral.) It was part of a friendship with someone who disappeared from my life as quickly as they had entered it; part of a weird, guilt-ridden dynamic I felt related to Cory Monteith's death in 2013. And yet even as Liam changed and new things came to light about him in more recent years, it doesn't negate any of the experiences, the memories I had related to him, and my love&mdash;whether for him, his bandmates, or other people in my life.

Though this is a slight existential tangent, my point is this: the ever-changing nature of time does not eradicate the significance and meaning of any life, experience, or emotional truth that may have resonated with any former versions of ourselves. People are not static human beings, and neither are the things I create, like I thought once before. As we live, we have no choice but to be participants of time, learning and becoming newer version of ourselves every moment, every day. We use the internet because it's ever-present; but it's ever-present because it allows us to share and express those truths, to experience them, to learn from them and "save" a new version of ourselves&mdash;so to speak&mdash;day by day.

And so I leave with this final thought: as we go through the unrelenting passage of time, what more can we do than to archive it as it happens? Whether or not anyone else learns or discovers something new about themselves should they stumble upon it later, there is no denying that even if all human existence comes to an end one day, it still meant something to us in one point in time. And from an humanist perspective&mdash;and an internet archivist's perspective&mdash;sometimes, I believe that that is enough.




