## kingdra.net: Documentation (March 8, 2025)

<p>For a long time, kingdra.net was a placeholder domain &mdash; and for over nine years at that. I bought it in 2015 because I kept liking the idea of owning it, and every time I checked Namecheap (which had been my hosting provider at the time) it was available. So in April of 2015, I bought it and let it sit there for years.</p>

<p>It hosted some side projects during that time, a few of which I've removed since they're not as relevant to me anymore. I hosted KWTR on there in 2015 as well as a few more experimental projects for some time, mostly for my own enjoyment. For the most part I had thought of it as my webdesign dump of stuff &mdash; scripts, testing, and archived projects. </p>

<p>And it still is that. I've just expanded it a bit.</p>

<p>This documentation is largely for the main index site, which I made in October of 2024 and have continued to expand since then. kingdra.net hosts everything related to my internet presence that is not related to who <i>I</i> am specifically. Obviously most things things under this domain are still related to me in some way of course, but it's most for my own neuroses. </p>

<p>I mostly made the index page out of necessity &mdash; I'd tried to write a very small mini blog on it only weeks before, along with the FAQ and a sitemap for my own sanity. Then I wanted to log updates, and future plans &mdash; and then it expanded into wanting a guestbook (originally for aroceu.com) and my "clubhouse" that was originally in my library, which had all the cliques and buttons and stamps. <i>And</i> I'd just made the links subsection and wanted to share it somewhere accessible instead of just posting it on social media, and since kingdra.net was the root domain, I figured I should link it from there at least. So it didn't take long for me to go, well, I could just put it all here, when the landing page had been nothing but a white page with a small kingdra sprite on it for 9 years. So I did.</p>

<p>I used the background that I originally had for my /stuff section because I had been thinking of retiring it anyway. I'd gone through a lot of differen images before I'd settled on the background I'd chosen, and I was still quite attached to it, so since I was making these changes at the same time, I thought, well, I could just have it be the background on kingdra.net instead now. Especially as it would fit with the theme of my love for oceans, and kingdra.net is an ocean-based Pok&eacute;mon, so it all works out.</p>

<p>Iframes were one of the first strategies I learned when I was making a Webs website all those years ago. Changing the CSS on every page was such a pain and I didn't understand stylesheets yet, plus I was as indecisive as I've always been. So I'd implemented iFrames for a few years up until I learned external stylesheets and PHP; plus, I recognized at some point that iframes were bad practice. But now that we're in 2024... we're so back. I do understand why they're dissuaded from being used from a technical standpoint. But when I consider what I want this website to be and from where I started, I feel like using iframes here is the only correct decision.</p>

<p>The biggest contributor to how the kingdra.net index page looks now are all the stamps &mdash; taken from my brief but lively clubhouse page in my library. I'd made the library after seeing <a href="https://cloverso.me" target="_parent">Clover's</a> <a href="https://catso.neocities.org" target="_parent">Neocities</a> and got inspired to do something similar. Through them I found a lot of other Neocities pages, especially those with collections of stamps and buttons, and it made me want to do the same. That's why it was all originally in my "library", along with the cliques I'd joined. But shortly after making the old clubhouse page, I felt like that it didn't quite fit in that section. After all, the library was an archive of the media I liked, wanted to like, and currently liked; fun website stamps weren't really relevant to that. So it felt suitable to move them to kingdra.net as well, especially because they all feel relevant as testaments toward the independent web together.</p>

<p>A lot of the other fun features on kingdra.net I've added over time after my first launch of it &mdash; the status.cafe was a quick addition since I'd seen so many recent personal sites have a widget on their pages too. Being able to share my status like this feels like a nice non-social way to microblog. The buttons/links to all my main website projects were also an idea from the start; and I had to move some stuff around after I created three new projects afterward anyway &mdash; gifts, music, and the docs. I found some fun small site widgets (the moon phases and flood from melonking.net) that I wanted to add as small secret pages as well; made linkback buttons for the fun of it; and created an "ideas" page just because I'd seen someone else do it. Though I'd initially decided for kingdra.net to be a non-responsive website, it eventually occured to me that I may as well make a splash page &mdash; entering the desktop page probably needed a warning for all the image loading anyway.</p>

<p>So I made a quick splash page over Thanksgiving week of 2024, along with the mobile text-only alternative (which unsurprisingly is, yeah, <i>way</i> more easy to navigate if I needed to look for something.) The last and most recent significant additions I made to the index page &mdash; for now, that is &mdash; are the random rotation of personal sites, as well as the PNGs of my splatsona and kingdra in the bottom :) The personal site rotation idea came to me after I realized that the number of sites/buttons I had on its own individual page was pushing... uh, a lot, and since the reason I compiled the list in the first place was both for me and for others to access. But who wants to load that many buttons at once? (This is sarcasm, because *stares at my desktop layout again*.) Having the rotation is not only more fun, but also way more convenient &mdash; and if people decide to visit my site, there's a higher chance of them visiting these sites just by seeing them as 5 random ones that I like, rather than going through the entire 100+ button wall. </p>

<p>The PNGs of my splatsona and kingdra were very last minute, but honestly I'm happier with them than I thought I'd be. In visiting a lot of sites through this re-hyperfixation for website inspiration (and just to add to my button wall), I'd come across a number of furries and artists and furry artists that had PNGs of their sonas in the corner. So when I saw that empty corner of my website because it was bothering me, I was like, man, if only I was a furry or an artist, then I could just put my sona in that corner.</p>

<p>And then I remembered I literally have a sona that I <i>have</i> commissioned art for &mdash; my splatsona, of course. My attachment to my splatsona was really just because I like Splatoon so much (and still do), but over the years it's also become...<i>me</i>, you know. Like, I like the idea of people thinking of me and envisioning my octoling as my physical form. I won't go too much into my love for Splatoon and its art and the entire franchise &mdash; but yeah, even though I'm not a furry, my splatsona is "me" in the same way. </p>

<p>I commissioned the kingdra last minute &mdash; in fact, my initial thought was to grab the Pokemon Showdown April Fool's Day doodle of it and turn it into a PNG for my site. But I figured it would probably be better if I had something custom made, and I have quite a lot of artist friends, so I just asked on bsky and lilkikibat said they were interested, so we got it done! I showed them the April Fool's Day idea and they got the commission back to me only a few hours later, and it was perfect :) So now I have a kingdra at the bottom of the page because it's my favorite Pok&eacute;mon. Oh, and because it's the name of the site.</p>

<hr />

<p>Entering kingdra.net places you on a landing page, with an "enter" button and a note in the middle of the page that lets you know the full experience of the website is designed for desktop, but has an accessible text-only alternative, for loading or mobile reasons. The landing page also has the webrings I've joined, a link to aroceu.com, five random personal sites that I think are cool, and my friends/affiliated sites.</p>

<p>Clicking through to the desktop &mdash; either through the "enter" button or the "desktop" link in the warnings/notes &mdash; brings you to the main landing page. In the middle is an iframe for in-page content. The top navigation graphics are all my main projects under aroceu.com, while the side contains links to additional projects, both personal and not. The left button wall contains links to other subpages and projects, some on the same page: my "current" log, the Bad Buddy Wiki, click to help Palestine, my linkback buttons (indicated by one of the site's linkback buttons), personal sites, moon phases, sitemaps (atlas), this documentation, and my non-fanfiction projects. The flood widget can be found by clicking on the "bastard of the ocean" blinkie below this wall. A link to my personality test results ("me") can be found by clicking on the "web surfer" blinkie next to it. The list of personal sites is also linked twice &mdash; in the left hand stamps ("internet addict"), as well as through the text link at the bottom.</p>

<p>The iframe contains a notebook reminiscent CSS background due to my own love for notebooks and appreciation for the aesthetic. The code is by Sarah Backhouse and taken from the <a href="https://projects.verou.me/css3patterns/#lined-paper">CSS3 Patterns Gallery</a>. </p>

<p>I put the pixel cliques in the top left of the main page instead of with the internal cliques page because I don't really collect that many pixels (so I don't have to worry about having too many to fit), and I think it's a cuter way to show them off. The unevenness of the columns is also in my preference; it would look "too" organized if they were symmetrical. Any new stamp/button links would go in the left column along with the preexisting ones, while the ones on the right are mostly for cosmetic purposes. My friends and affiliated sites (mutuals) are also linked at the bottom of the left-hand column, with ample space below for my octoling and kingdra. The webrings listed on the splash page are at the bottom of the right hand column, along with some other pixel microcliques I've found along the way.</p>

<p>The bottom navigation are internal pages that open in the iframe, with a back button to get back to the splash page if you'd like. Entering the desktop index opens the Updates page by default, maintaining the idea of this site being a portal between my other online projects. I used to not archive my updates, but now that I'm really back into websites again I figure that I really ought to, especially now that I use Github for everything else.</p>

<p>The "cliques" page has cliques I've collected more than joined &mdash; though I have joined some &mdash; but I find it more fun to collect them rather than "officially" join them. Next is the "fuq": frequently (un)asked questions, because I usually find FAQs fun to read and write. There's especially an interesting context of <i>why</i> a question gets asked in a FAQ in the first place, so it's fun to use that to my advantage as a writer and share interesting things about me in an "uninteresting" way, rather than having it more personably accessible from an about page. I like to make modifications to it every so often; it's fun curating my personality this way.</p>

<p>Next are my ideas and future plans. This used link to an old cross-site map, but it didn't have any links and was restricted to the iframe, so I made an <a href="https://aroceu.com/atlas" target="_parent">atlas elsewhere</a> and swapped this link out for my ideas list. If nothing else, it's just a to-do list for myself. But it's also what larger projects I generally have planned, for the near future and beyond.</p>

<p>And of course at the end is the guestbook, where you can leave a message and say hi if you want :)</p>

<p>The mobile version has all of the same links on the desktop site in list format.</p>

<hr />

<p>For my reference: the personal site button rotation is a PHP list that has been cloned into HTML for the main button wall. Every time I add a new site to the button rotation, I'll also have to add it to sites.php as well. I'm putting this here because I know I'll forget this. Also, the reason I wrote this documentation was to remind myself of this in the future anyway.</p>

